Fully Trained: All Glitter Boy pilots begin with the Power Armor Jock Edge. 

Glitter Boy Armor: Power Armor of the highest caliber (see sidebar) 

Heroic Legacy: A Glitter Boy pilot gets +2 Charisma. If a Glitter Boy is stolen, word passes quickly and the thief is targeted by Glitter Boy pilots across North America. 

Many Have Fallen: Numerous Glitter Boys fell to defend the world, leaving plentiful salvageable parts. Serious repairs cost 250,000 credits and Severe ones 500,000 (see page 122). 

COMPLICATIONS

Big and Shiny: Glitter Boys are immediately recognizable and often a priority target for heavy weaponry. They suffer -8 to Stealth rolls due to their glittering armored coating. At 10 feet tall and Size 3, Glitter Boys are big targets and man-sized opponents gain +2 to hit them (see page 84). 

Closed Off: Sealed away from the natural and spiritual worlds, Glitter Boy pilots cannot use magic or psionics while in the suit. Such powers used by others can still affect them. 

Digging In: Activating/deactivating the stabilization system is an action. Firing the Boom Gun without these measures knocks the Glitter Boy 2d6” back and prone, leaving the pilot Shaken. Once dug in, the Glitter Boy cannot move and can only fire to the front and sides (180 degrees). Digging in makes the Glitter Boy an easier target, attackers gain a +2 to attack rolls against the suit while dug in. 

Enemies: The Coalition States consider all Glitter Boys enemies of the state. Few within the True Federation of Magic consider them friends either. 

Highly Technical Machinery: Like all devices, armor, vehicles, and weapons, The biggest gun and toughest armor make your hero the main target. Make sure you coordinate with your teammates against the nastiest attacks of the enemy. At the same time, make sure you work out with your teammates where they should 
avoid engaging so you don’t risk friendly fire (or knocking them out with the sonic boom). Get out of the armor once in a while! The Glitter Boy pilot can serve well as a skilled and utilitarian member of the team when there’s more than combat at hand. Glitter Boy systems are subject to the Technical Difficulties Setting Rule (see page 122). 

Sonic Boom: Firing a Boom Gun causes a sonic boom affecting everyone (except the pilot) within a Large Burst Template. A failure on a Vigor roll -2 inflicts Hard of Hearing (Major) for 3d6 minutes and makes the character Shaken. If he fails with a 1 on the Vigor die, he is Incapacitated and makes a Vigor roll each round to become conscious but Shaken. Anyone in environmentally sealed armor gains +2 to the roll, as do characters with Hard of Hearing (Minor). Characters with the Major version are immune! 

Stand By to Fire: A Glitter Boy cannot move and fire its Boom Gun on the same round. This is why some carry other firearms as alternatives for when they need to move and shoot. 