BURN BRIGHTER

Every drop of life is precious to a Juicer.
She never wants to see it wasted. With
this Edge, any time a Burn Die rolls a 1 or
2, the player may re-roll it. She must accept
the second result.

BURN FOR GLORY

For the rare Juicer who lives long enough
to become Legendary, the possibilities are
truly spectacular for what she can do with
her remaining days.
A Juicer with this Edge may spend a point
of Burn to double the result of any Trait
or damage roll!

BURN PAST THE PAIN

He doesn’t have time to bleed or feel
pain. The Juicer can spend a Burn to ignore
all wound penalties for the remainder of a
combat, including wound penalties to Vigor
rolls if he is Incapacitated during the combat
(as per the Hard to Kill Edge).

BURN FOR TOMORROW

Though Death remains close on the
Juicer’s heels, he refuses to acknowledge
its presence until his time has truly come.
When rolling on the Death & Defeat Table,
he may add his Burn Die to the d20 roll.

CYBERKINETIC AWARENESS

As an action, the Cyber-Knight can
stretch out his senses to understand all
of the tech weapons and defenses he’s
engaged with. The -2 to attacks against him
with technical weapons expands to -2 to all
Trait rolls against him where technology
is involved. This includes Notice checks
and opposed rolls.

IMPROVED CYBERKINETIC AWARENESS

All rolls against the Cyber-Knight where
technology is involved suffer a -4 penalty.

CYBERKINETIC DENIAL

The Cyber-Knight can shut down
technological devices. As an action, she
can target a device or vehicle within her
Spirit range and make a Psionics roll to
shut it down for three rounds, or a full
minute with a raise.
Simple items like firearms or
communicators are rolled with no
penalty. To affect advanced systems
like a computer or a vehicle’s weapon
system imposes a -2 modifier, while
shutting down robot armor, a suit of
power armor (including a Glitter Boy),
or an entire vehicle requires a roll
at -4. To affect a cyborg requires an
opposed roll at -4 against the target’s
Smarts. The target loses the use of
his cybernetics for the duration. This
Incapacitates a Combat Cyborg for that
period of time.

FLAME BLAST

For a single ISP, the Burster’s Flame Bolt
affects a Medium Burst Template. For two
ISP, he can expand the radius to a Large
Burst Template. Alternately, the Burster can
spend one ISP to use the Cone Template at no
range (targets make an opposed Agility roll
against Psionics to avoid the effect). Unless
otherwise stated, enhancements from other
Edges (such as Improved Flame Bolt) apply
to this use of this Edge as well.

FRESHLY JUICED

For some Juicers, the surgical operations
are as fresh in their memory as the chemical
cocktails flowing through their veins.
“Last Call” is a long way off for this Juicer.
She adds +2 to her Burn score. This must
be taken at character creation, and Freshly
Juiced characters cannot also take the Last
Call Hindrance.

GUN NUT

For many Crazies, the gun is a tool of
unrestrained violence and a key partner in
the ballet of rage that overcomes them.
A Crazy with this Edge can use his
Shooting skill as effectively as his Fighting
while in the Losing It state (including
a +2 on Shooting attacks, though not to
Shooting damage).

GYMNASTIC MASTERY

Some transcend from naturally talented to
preternaturally gifted in matters of motion
and space. This Edge allows the character
to add +2 to the Strength roll to increase
jumping distance. She also adds the bonus to
Climbing checks, and she can ascend at her
Strength die per round (instead of half). She
ignores Difficult Ground when moving and
gains an additional +2 to Parry when using
the Defend maneuver (but not Full Defense).
Finally, a character with Gymnastic
Mastery can make an Agility roll (with the
+2 from Acrobat) to reduce effective falling
distance by 10 feet, or 20 feet on a raise. A
fall of over 20 yards imposes a -2 penalty.

IMPROVED CYBER-ARMOR

The protection of the Cyber-Armor is
enhanced to +4 Toughness total.

MASTER CYBER-ARMOR

In addition to +4 Toughness, the
Cyber-Armor now also provides +2
M.D.C. Armor, which stacks with
any worn armor.

IMPROVED FIERY AURA

The Burster’s Fiery Aura damage
increases to 3d8, and he may choose to
affect a Medium Burst Template centered on
himself (everyone in the area takes damage
at the end of the Burster’s turn).

IMPROVED FIRE MASTERY

Many Bursters grow in their absolute
control over fire and heat, improving their
natural Fire Mastery in a number of ways.
A Burster with this Edge increases
the Range of his Fire Mastery to 24”.
Alternatively, he can center the effect on
himself and affect a radius equal to 2 × his
Spirit. All other effects remain the same.

IMPROVED FLAME BOLT

For some Bursters, more destructive
power is the summation of their true self.
This Edge improves the Burster’s Flame
Bolt damage to 6d6.


GREATER FLAME BOLT

The next evolution of the Burster’s raw
attack force, this Edge brings the damage
up to 6d8. It also enhances the Range
categories to 15/30/60.

IMPROVED PSI-SWORD

The Cyber-Knight’s weapon is enhanced
in power, doing Strength + 3 × Spirit, AP
8. If split, each blade does Strength +
3 × Spirit, AP 4.

MASTER PSI-SWORD

The Cyber-Knight knows how to
channel his inner strength for extra
damage with his blade. Before rolling an
attack, the player declares how many ISP
he wishes to spend on damage, up to 3
points. Each point adds +4 to the damage
(up to a maximum of +12). If using the split
blade option, each blade gains +2 damage
per ISP spent (to a maximum of +6 each).

LEY LINE OBSERVATION SPHERE

Some Walkers are able to conjure up a
glowing bluish-white sphere the size of a
soccer ball, which they can send anywhere
up or down a ley line. It travels at 30 mph
and has a range of one mile, acting as a
focus point for the Walker to use any of her
senses to observe what’s around the ball as
though she were standing there (she cannot
cast her powers through it, however). Using
the sphere counts as an action, imposing
a -2 multi-action penalty on any other
actions while active.

LEY LINE PHASING

Some Walkers become so intricately tied
to the lines that they are capable of phasing
into the energies for an instant, transporting
to any other point along the line in the
blink of an eye.
Ley Line Walkers with this Edge may take
a full round to concentrate (taking no other
actions, not even free actions), and on the
next round they can teleport flawlessly to any
other point along the same line. Though it
costs no PPE, the Walker must make a Vigor
check or suffer a Fatigue level (requiring
four hours to recover). Each subsequent
use of this ability imposes a cumulative -2
penalty to the Vigor check until the Walker
has a full night’s rest. Ley Line Phasing
cannot be used to transport others, but see
Ley Line Gate, below.

LEY LINE GATE

A truly powerful Ley Line Walker ability,
the hero can carry up to his Smarts die
in passengers when he phases to another
location on the line. Carrying passengers,
even just one, imposes an additional -2
penalty to his Vigor check to resist Fatigue.

OFF THE HANDLE

A Crazy with this Edge can start Losing It
as a free action.
Interestingly, such a Crazy also has an
easier time coming out of it. He doesn’t
suffer the usual -2 penalty to his Smarts roll
when trying to recover.

PSI-SHIELD

Cyber-Knights with this Edge can
summon forth a Psi-Shield, granting +3
Parry and +4 Armor against ranged damage
(stacking with worn armor and the armor
power). It costs no ISP and can be summoned
as a free action. If he has a Psi-Shield and a
Psi-Sword manifested, it counts as having
two Psi-Blades active (meaning the Psi-
Sword’s AP value is reduced by 4).

RAPID FLAME BOLT

The Burster can use his Flame Bolt power
(along with any enhancements from other
Edges) with a Rate of Fire of 3.

READ THE FLAME

Bursters with this Edge can make a Notice
check to read and understand a fire, or the
site of one. With a success, she can tell how it
started and how long it burned. With a raise,
she can sense what kind of being, if any,
started the fire, as well as other interesting
details the GM might be wish to share, such
as the fire’s purpose, if any.

SPLIT THE SECONDS

Juicers and Crazies often find themselves
living between the ticks of the clock. This
Edge grants an extra action to the character
each round. There is no multi-action penalty
for this action, and it can be a repeat action,
such as firing a gun or swinging a sword
again. It cannot, however, be used for
movement, such as Running.

BURN FASTER

There never seems to be quite enough
time left, so the Juicer just has to go faster
to get it all done. She can spend a Burn
to take an immediate second turn, just
like the quickness power. Once she does
this, the effect (two turns per round) lasts
for 3+1d6 rounds.

SUBLIME CHAOS

The tumultuous storm of neuroses,
psychoses, and other issues crashing about
in a Crazy’s head sometimes swirl into a
beautiful rainbow of total disconnection
from reality. The Crazy with this Edge
understands how to ride the waves of her
insanity like a surfer masters those of the
sea. The greater part of her mind is simply
elsewhere, leaving behind a nearly machinelike
entity that gets the job done.
While Losing It, a Crazy with this Edge
is able to perform actions not normally
allowed by Berserk, including using her
psionics. She also only suffers a -1 to Trait
rolls during her Coming Back period.

UPGRADE

For those who embrace cybernetics as a
part of their being (by choice or necessity),
the desire to upgrade is often an allencompassing
goal on its own.
Taking this Edge—which may only
be selected once per Rank—means the
cybernetic hero manages to achieve the
necessary resources and opportunity to
have a new piece of cybernetic technology
installed, or have one upgraded to a
higher degree. Though the GM has final
say on what is and is not appropriate,
anything in the Cybernetics section is fair
game otherwise.
Background Edges

UPGRADABLE

This hero can handle a lot more cybernetic
invasion in his body than most. He increases
his Maximum Strain by +6. Note Combat
Cyborgs and Cybernetic Techno-Warriors
already have this Edge.
Combat Edges

BATTLE HARDENED

The hero’s conditioning reflects the
rigors of a martial career. He adds +2 to
all Soak rolls.

CHARGE

The warrior is experienced at moving
across a large distance and getting the
most effect out of rushing her foe. She may
ignore the multi-action penalty for Running
when making a Fighting attack at the end
of her movement.

OVERRUN

If he moves at least one inch beyond his
normal Pace before making any Fighting
attacks, the hero adds +2 to the damage
rolls. Any target Shaken by such an attack
is knocked prone.

COMBAT SENSE

The champion has the perception,
skill, and agility to handle multiple foes.
Opponents halve any Gang Up bonuses
against him (round down).

IMPROVED COMBAT SENSE

Opponents gain no Gang Up bonus
against this warrior.

DIRTY FIGHTER

Some fight with honor. Some fight to win.
This Edge is most likely known by thugs,
mercenaries, and assassins. A Dirty Fighter
is particularly good at Trick maneuvers,
gaining a +2 bonus with them.

TRICKY FIGHTER

The hero suffers no multi-action penalty
when using a Trick in the same round as
a Fighting attack. The player must choose
which type of Trick this Edge applies to
(Agility or Smarts) and must have a d8+ in
that attribute. The character may take this
Edge twice to apply it to both kinds of Tricks.
Power Edges

CYBER-PSYCHIC ALIGNMENT

The character’s mind and body are aligned
strongly enough to offset one level of Strain
penalty when using powers. Having a
single Strain’s worth of cybernetics means
there is no impact on rolling for powers use,
while having three points of Strain value
embedded only applies a -2.

IMPROVED CYBER-PSYCHIC ALIGNMENT

The character can ignore two levels of
Strain penalties when using her powers.

ENERGY CONTROL

The psionic master has greater control
over a specific form of non-living matter
(such as water, earth, or metal) or the ability
to affect a particular type of energy (like
electricity, fire, or cold) while using the
telekinesis power. This allows him to create
minor effects related to what he controls—
radio interference (electricity), putting out
small fires (water), light small fires (fire)—
as a free action.
The character also has three major effects
which require an action to use. Using his
element, he can:
??Create environmental effects which
apply a -2 penalty to Trait rolls (-4
with a raise).
??Inflict 2d6 damage over the area (3d6
Mega Damage if exalted telekinesis is used).
??Dampen the energy or kinetic energy of
the matter, causing attacks of that type
to do only half damage within the area.
All effects occur within a Medium Burst
Template (a Large Burst Template with exalted
telekinesis) and require use of the telekinesis
power, including a Psionics skill roll and
normal ISP cost. When taking this Edge, the
player selects an energy or form of matter to
control; he can take this Edge multiple times,
choosing a new type each time.

PSI-BLADE

Another powerful manifestation of will
and telekinetic strength, the Psi-Blade
provides the psionic with a mental energy
blade that does Strength + Spirit melee
damage (i.e., roll Strength and Spirit dice
for damage). The blade is AP 6 and does
Mega Damage. The psi simply activates
her smite power, summoning the Psi-Blade
instead of putting the power on another
weapon or set of ammunition (the smite
bonus adds directly to the Psi-Blade’s base
damage). This Edge can be used with exalted
smite, as well.

EXCEPTIONAL RAPID RECHARGE

The caster with this Edge recovers Power
Points (PPE/ISP) at a rate of one point
every five minutes.

SIXTH SENSE

A psionic can develop extraordinary
extrasensory perception and awareness of
potential danger. A character with this Edge
suffers no -2 penalty to her Notice check for
Danger Sense. With success she gains the
normal Danger Sense bonus, beginning the
round on Hold. With a raise, she can take
a single immediate action (such as run to
cover, activate a defensive power, or draw
a weapon). This Edge works even when the
character is in power armor or robot armor.

TELEMECHANICS

This peculiar yet powerful Master Psionic
ability permits the psi to directly connect
to and interface with machines, vehicles,
computers, and electronic devices. When
activating telepathy, instead of using the
normal power effects, he can choose to gain
+4 to all checks involving computers and
electronics, including Investigation checks
to dig through data and files. This bonus
also applies to attempts to bypass security
systems and electronic locks.
The psi also has the benefits of the Ace
Edge when interfacing with a vehicle via
telepathy which has an electronic control
system, increasing to a +4 bonus if the
character already has the Edge. This Edge
works even when the character is in power
armor or robot armor.
Professional Edges

COMBAT ACE

Integrating vehicle operation with
weapons control in one fluid moment of
expertise, the pilot with this Edge ignores
the multi-action penalty for making a
Boating, Driving, or Piloting check and
firing a weapon on the same round.

MAJOR PSIONIC

A greater control of mind, body, and spirit
combined with the overwhelming power
available on Rifts Earth means this hero
can do much more with her inner strength.
Major Psionics double their base ISP, and
they gain +10 ISP (instead of the usual +5)
from the Power Points Edge.
Major Psionics may also:
??Spend 2 ISP when rolling their Psionics
skill to gain a +1 to the roll, or 4 ISP for +2.
??Spend 1 ISP to double the Range of a
power, or 2 ISP to multiply the base
range × 10. This ability does not affect
powers that have Range of Self or Touch.
The two effects can be combined, but the
decision to spend ISP for either must be
made before the roll.
While on a ley line, all above bonuses are
doubled in effect.

MASTER PSIONIC

Superhuman powers of the mind and
spirit become the purview of the Master
Psionic, making her a true threat against
the most powerful foes in the world. Upon
taking this Edge, the character gains the
Mega Power option for all the powers
she knows. Each time she takes the New
Power Edge, she gains both the power and
its Mega Power version.

MASTER OF MAGIC

True understanding of the ley lines, Rifts,
and eldritch flow of power through the world
grants many spellcasters exceptional might
and capability with their magic. A Master
of Magic gains the Mega Power option for
each power he knows upon taking this
Edge. Each time he takes the New Power
Edge, he gains both the power and its Mega
Power use as well.

POWER ARMOR JOCK

Power armor requires a basic level
of training and experience to operate
effectively. A character must have this Edge
to avoid a -2 penalty to Agility and all skill
rolls while wearing power armor.

ROBOT ARMOR JOCK

Robot armor suits are highly complex
vehicles which require a great deal of
training to operate. Without this Edge, the
operator suffers a -2 penalty to all skill rolls
while piloting robot armor.
Social Edges

I KNOW A GUY

Some people seem to know someone
everywhere they go. The contact may not
be the most amazingly helpful person—
they may even hate the hero for some past
slight or money owed. The person known
may be well-placed in an organization, or
just as easily homeless and only know a
few possibly helpful rumors. The point is,
however, almost anywhere he goes, the hero
seems to know someone, and that person
usually at least knows something of value
or can contact some helpful folks. Once per
session, the player can invoke this Edge
to effectively have the Connections Edge
with any person or group. Use the rules for
Connections to determine if the contact can
be reached, and if he will help in any way.
If the attempt to contact a particular person
fails, the once-per-session use of this Edge
is not used up; failures on the Persuasion
check to get help still trigger that session’s
use of the Edge.

SCROUNGER

Some people are just very skilled at
knowing how to find what they need in
an urban setting. They know where to
look, who to talk to, and how to get what
their group needs. A Scrounger can make
a Streetwise check, once per session, in any
city or large town (-2 in smaller urban areas)
to accomplish one of the following:
??Gain 1d6+2 fully charged e-clips for the
firearms she and her teammates use.
??Acquire a complete reload for one Mega
Damage weapon, such as a Boom Gun,
Mini Rail Gun, or grenade launcher.
??Procure food for 2d6 people for a week.
??Fully restock one Trauma Kit, or find
1d4+1 first aid kits (as found in the NGS2
Survival Pack).
??Obtain a non-secured cred-card with
2d10 × 2,000 credits on it.
??Find some rare (not necessarily valuable)
and needed item (entertainment chips
for computers, a spare part for a suit of
armor or vehicle, snacks and treats, etc.).